## FAT*'2020 Translation Tutorial #4: Two computer scientists and a cultural scientist get hit by a driver-less car: A method for situating knowledge in the cross-disciplinary study of F-A-T in machine learning

This tutorial will build on the experiences gained in a previous workshop, where a group of artists, computer scientists, lawyers, activists, and social scientists collectively read and discussed a computer science paper. Here, we seek to replicate and test the practice of cross-disciplinary, collaborative paper-reading to a community interested in influencing, and being influenced by, the insights into methods that are available from fields external to their own. We will come to the tutorial having read a set of papers, and then have a discussion for about 40 minutes in small groups about what we read and how we read it. We will invite people to take on roles as ‘interpreters’ and ‘translators’; we will pair people from different disciplinary backgrounds to take on these roles in a group. We will then re-convene to share notes on how the discussions developed:  the moments where the different standards, goals and epistemologies across disciplines emerged, and how we dealt with them; how and if this is relevant to working in F-A-T disciplines; and to critically assess how and if this method might work in a classroom or other pedagogical context.

### Who will be delivering this tutorial?

- Maya Indira Ganesh, Centre for Digital Cultures/Cultural Studies Faculty, Leuphana University, Lueneburg, Germany. Maya is a doctoral candidate at Leuphana University whose work focuses on how computational ethics shapes the notion of an autonomous machine, and the changing role of the human in this.

- Francien Dechesne,  eLaw Center for Law and Digital Technologies,  Leiden University Leiden, Netherlands. Francien is Assistant Professor at the Center for Law and Digital Technologies (eLaw). While situated in the Leiden Law School, Francien has a background in mathematics, computer science and philosophy. Her teaching and research are on Responsible Innovation and Ethics & Digital Technologies, in particular how datafication, computation and automation impact decision making processes.

- Zeerak Waseem, Department of Computer Science Natural Language Processing Group University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.  Zeerak is a doctoral student at the University of Sheffield in natural language processing where his work focuses on building and critiquing automated tools for content moderation.
